Readme.md, before:

# @leichtgewicht/ip-codec

Small package to encode or decode IP addresses from buffers to strings.
Supports IPV4 and IPV6.

## Usage

The basics are straigthforward

```js
const { encode, decode, formatOf, sizeOf } = require('@leichtgewicht/ip-codec')

const uint8Array = encode("127.0.0.1")
const str = decode(uint8Array)

try {
  switch formatOf(str) {
    case 4: // IPv4
    case 6: // IPv6
  }
} catch (err) {
  // Invalid IP
}
try {
  switch sizeOf(str) {
    case 4: // IPv4
    case 16: // IPv6
  }
} catch (err) {
  // Invalid IP
}
```

By default the library will work with Uint8Array's but you can bring your own buffer:

```js
const buf = Buffer.alloc(4)
encode('127.0.0.1', buf)
```

It is also possible to de-encode at a location inside a given buffer

```js
const buf = Buffer.alloc(10)
encode('127.0.0.1', buf, 4)
```

Allocation of a buffer may be difficult if you don't know what type the buffer:
you can pass in a generator to allocate it for you:

```js
encode('127.0.0.1', Buffer.alloc)
```

You can also de/encode ipv4 or ipv6 specifically:

```js
const { ipv4, ipv6 } = require('@leichtgewicht/ip-codec')

ipv4.decode(ipv4.encode('127.0.0.1'))
ipv6.decode(ipv6.encode('::'))
```

## History

The code in this package was originally extracted from [node-ip](https://github.com/indutny/node-ip) and since improved.

The 

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

docs: better explanation of why.

Readme.md, after:

# @leichtgewicht/ip-codec

Small package to encode or decode IP addresses from buffers to strings.
Supports IPV4 and IPV6.

## Usage

The basics are straigthforward

```js
const { encode, decode, formatOf, sizeOf } = require('@leichtgewicht/ip-codec')

const uint8Array = encode("127.0.0.1")
const str = decode(uint8Array)

try {
  switch formatOf(str) {
    case 4: // IPv4
    case 6: // IPv6
  }
} catch (err) {
  // Invalid IP
}
try {
  switch sizeOf(str) {
    case 4: // IPv4
    case 16: // IPv6
  }
} catch (err) {
  // Invalid IP
}
```

By default the library will work with Uint8Array's but you can bring your own buffer:

```js
const buf = Buffer.alloc(4)
encode('127.0.0.1', buf)
```

It is also possible to de-encode at a location inside a given buffer

```js
const buf = Buffer.alloc(10)
encode('127.0.0.1', buf, 4)
```

Allocation of a buffer may be difficult if you don't know what type the buffer:
you can pass in a generator to allocate it for you:

```js
encode('127.0.0.1', Buffer.alloc)
```

You can also de/encode ipv4 or ipv6 specifically:

```js
const { ipv4, ipv6 } = require('@leichtgewicht/ip-codec')

ipv4.decode(ipv4.encode('127.0.0.1'))
ipv6.decode(ipv6.encode('::'))
```

## History

The code in this package was originally extracted from [node-ip](https://github.com/indutny/node-ip) and since improved.

Notable changes are the removal of the `Buffer` dependency and better support for detection of
formats and allocation of buffers.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
